samba (2:3.6.6-6+deb7u10) wheezy-security; urgency=high

    This Samba security release addresses both Denial of Service and Man in
    the Middle vulnerabilities.

    A significant number of patches were back-ported, and in some areas
    of winbindd the behaviour is now more like Samba 4.2 than 3.6

    This new security patch implements new smb.conf options and a
    number of stricter behaviours to prevent Man in the Middle attacks
    on our network services, as a client and as a server.

    Between these changes, compatibility with a large number of older
    software versions has been lost in the default configuration.

    See the release notes in WHATNEW.txt for more information.


    Here are some additional hints how to work around the new stricter default behaviors:

    * As a File Server, compatibility with the Linux Kernel cifs
      client depends on which configuration options are selected, please
      use "sec=krb5(i)" or "sec=ntlmssp(i)", not "sec=ntlmv2".

    * As a file or printer client and as a domain member, out of the
      box compatibility with Samba less than 4.0 and other SMB/CIFS
      servers, depends on support for SMB signing or SMB2 on the
      server, which is often disabled or absent. You may need to
      adjust the "client ipc signing" to "no" in these cases.

    However, all of these can be worked around by setting smb.conf
    options in Samba, see the 4.2.0 and 4.2.11 release notes (because
    many of the fixes are backported from there) at
    https://www.samba.org/samba/history/samba-4.2.0.html and
    https://www.samba.org/samba/history/samba-4.2.11.html and the
    Samba wiki for details, workarounds and suggested
    security-improving changes to these and other software packages.


    New smb.conf options and defaults:

    * raw NTLMv2 auth = no
    * allow dcerpc auth level connect = no


    Suggested further improvements after patching:

    It is recommended that administrators set these additional options,
    if compatible with their network environment:

        server signing = mandatory
        ntlm auth = no
        client signing = mandatory

    Without "server signing = mandatory", Man in the Middle attacks
    are still possible against our file server and
    classic/NT4-like/Samba3 Domain controller. (It is now enforced on
    Samba's AD DC.) Note that this has heavy impact on the file server
    performance, so you need to decide between performance and
    security. These Man in the Middle attacks for smb file servers are
    well known for decades.

    Without "ntlm auth = no", there may still be clients not using
    NTLMv2, and these observed passwords may be brute-forced easily using
    cloud-computing resources or rainbow tables.

    Without "client signing = mandatory" we will not be able to detect
    a MitM attack between our client tools or winbindd and the server or
    AD DC. Later versions of Samba implement additional features
    to protect these communications. Setting this option may however
    disable connections to servers that have smb signing disabled (the
    default, as above).

samba (2:3.6.5-2) unstable; urgency=low

    NSS modules have been split out from libpam-winbind to
    libnss-winbind.
    
    If Recommends: installs are disabled on your system you may need
    to manually install the libnss-winbind package after upgrading
    from former versions of winbind (for instance from squeeze) or
    from former versions of libpam-winbind.

 -- Christian Perrier <bubulle@debian.org>  Mon, 07 May 2012 22:16:32 +0200

samba (2:3.5.11~dfsg-3) unstable; urgency=low

    PAM modules and NSS modules have been split out from the winbind
    package into libpam-winbind.
    
    If Recommends: installs are disabled on your system you may need
    to manually install the libpam-winbind package after upgrading
    from former versions of winbind (for instance from squeeze)

 -- Steve Langasek <vorlon@debian.org>  Fri, 21 Oct 2011 20:00:13 +0000

samba (2:3.4.0-1) unstable; urgency=low

    Default passdb backend changed in samba 3.4.0 and above
  
    Beginning with samba 3.4.0, the default setting for "passdb
    backend" changed from "smbpasswd" to "tdbsam".
    
    If your smb.conf file does not have an explicit mention of
    "passdb backend" when upgrading from pre-3.4.0 versions of
    samba, it is likely that users will no longer be able to
    authenticate.
    
    As a consequence of all this, if you're upgrading from lenny
    and have no setting of "passdb backend" in smb.conf, you MUST
    add "passdb backend = smbpasswd" in order to keep your samba
    server's behaviour.
    
    As Debian packages of samba explicitly set "passdb backend = tdbsam"
    by default since etch, very few users should need to modify their
    settings.

 -- Christian Perrier <bubulle@debian.org>  Tue, 07 Jul 2009 20:42:19 +0200

samba (3.0.27a-2) unstable; urgency=low

    Weak authentication methods are disabled by default

    Beginning with this version, plaintext authentication is disabled for
    clients and lanman authentication is disabled for both clients and
    servers.  Lanman authentication is not needed for Windows
    NT/2000/XP/Vista, Mac OS X or Samba, but if you still have Windows
    95/98/ME clients (or servers) you may need to set lanman auth (or client
    lanman auth) to yes in your smb.conf.

    The "lanman auth = no" setting will also cause lanman password hashes to
    be deleted from smbpasswd and prevent new ones from being written, so
    that these can't be subjected to brute-force password attacks.  This
    means that re-enabling lanman auth after it has been disabled is more
    difficult; it is therefore advisable that you re-enable the option as
    soon as possible if you think you will need to support Win9x clients.

    Client support for plaintext passwords is not needed for recent Windows
    servers, and in fact this behavior change makes the Samba client behave
    in a manner consistent with all Windows clients later than Windows 98.
    However, if you need to connect to a Samba server that does not have
    encrypted password support enabled, or to another server that does not
    support NTLM authentication, you will need to set
    "client plaintext auth = yes" and "client lanman auth = yes" in smb.conf.

 -- Steve Langasek <vorlon@debian.org>  Sat, 24 Nov 2007 00:23:37 -0800

samba (3.0.26a-2) unstable; urgency=low

    Default printing system has changed from BSD to CUPS

    Previous versions of this package were configured to use BSD lpr as the
    default printing system.  With this version of Samba, the default has
    been changed to CUPS for consistency with the current default printer
    handling in the rest of the system.

    If you wish to continue using the BSD printing interface from Samba, you
    will need to set "printing = bsd" manually in /etc/samba/smb.conf.  If
    you wish to use CUPS printing but have previously set any of the
    "print command", "lpq command", or "lprm command" options in smb.conf,
    you will want to remove these settings from your config.  Otherwise, if
    you have the cupsys package installed, Samba should begin to use it
    automatically with no action on your part.

 -- Steve Langasek <vorlon@debian.org>  Wed, 14 Nov 2007 17:19:36 -0800
